Shard management (#2322)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/v2.0/reference/internals/shards.md

---
title: InfluxDB shards and shard groups
description: >
  Learn the relationships between buckets, shards, and shard groups.

>   InfluxDB organizes time series data in into **shards** when storing data to disk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  InfluxDB organizes time series data into **shards** when storing data to disk.
```

  Shards are grouped into **shard groups**.
menu:
  influxdb_2_0_ref:
    name: Shards & shard groups
    parent: InfluxDB internals
weight: 102
influxdb/v2.0/tags: [storage, internals]
related:
  - /influxdb/v2.0/reference/internals/storage-engine/
  - /influxdb/v2.0/organizations/buckets/
  - /influxdb/v2.0/reference/cli/influx/bucket/
---

> InfluxDB organizes time series data in into **shards** when storing data to disk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
InfluxDB organizes time series data into **shards** when storing data to disk.
```

Shards are grouped into **shard groups**.
Learn the relationships between buckets, shards, and shard groups.

- [Shards](#shards)
- [Shard groups](#shard-groups)
  - [Shard group duration](#shard-group-duration)
  - [Shard group diagram](#shard-group-diagram)
- [Shard life-cycle](#shard-life-cycle)
  - [Shard precreation](#shard-precreation)
  - [Shard writes](#shard-writes)
  - [Shard compaction](#shard-compaction)
- [Shard deletion](#shard-deletion)

## Shards
A shard contains encoded and compressed time series data for a given time range
defined by the [shard group duration](#shard-group-duration).

> All points in a [series](#series) within the shard's time range are stored in the same shard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All points in a [series](#series) within the specified shard group duration are stored in the same shard.
```

> A single shard contains multiple series, multiple [TSM files](#tsm-time-structured-merge-tree) on disk,

Author: Updated

and belongs to a [shard group](#shard-groups).

## Shard groups
A shard group belongs to an InfluxDB [bucket](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/glossary/#bucket) and contains time series data for a specific time range defined by
the [shard group duration](#shard-group-duration).

{{% note %}}
In **InfluxDB OSS**, a shard group typically contains only a single shard.

> In an **InfluxDB Enterprise 1.x cluster**, shard groups contain multiple shards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an **InfluxDB Enterprise 1.x cluster**, a shard group contain multiple copies of a shard
```

Author: Shards aren't duplicated, they're distributed. So you have multiple different shards in a shard group spread across multiple instances.

distributed across multiple data nodes.
{{% /note %}}

### Shard group duration

> The **shard group duration** determines the time range a shard group covers
> and the interval at which new shard groups are created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **shard group duration** specifies the time range for each shard group and determines how often to create a new shard group. 
```

> By default, InfluxDB determines shard group durations using
> the [retention period](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/glossary/#retention-period)
> of the bucket:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, InfluxDB sets the shard group duration according to
the [retention period](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/glossary/#retention-period)
of the bucket:
```

{{% note %}}
Shard group durations must be shorter than the bucket's retention period.
{{% /note %}}

To view your bucket's shard group duration, use the
[`influx bucket list` command](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/cli/influx/bucket/list/).

### Shard group diagram
The following diagram represents a **bucket** with a **4d retention period**
and a **1d shard group duration**:

---

{{< html-diagram/shards >}}

---

## Shard life-cycle

### Shard precreation
The InfluxDB **shard precreation service** pre-creates shards with future start
and end times for each shard group based on the shard group duration.

The precreator service does not pre-create shards for past time ranges.
When backfilling historical data, InfluxDB creates shards for past time ranges as needed,
resulting in temporarily lower write throughput.

##### Shard precreation-related configuration settings
- [`storage-shard-precreator-advance-period`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/config-options/#storage-shard-precreator-advance-period)
- [`storage-shard-precreator-check-interval`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/config-options/#storage-shard-precreator-check-interval)

### Shard writes

> InfluxDB writes time series data to un-compacted or "hot" shards.
> When a shard is no longer actively written to, InfluxDB progressively compresses
> or [compacts](#shard-compaction) the shards.
> Compacted shards are considered "cold" shards.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
InfluxDB writes time series data to un-compacted or "hot" shards.
When a shard is no longer actively written to, InfluxDB [compacts](#shard-compaction) shard data, resulting in a "cold" shard.

```

Typically, InfluxDB writes data to the most recent shard group, but when backfilling

> historical data InfluxDB writes to older shards that must first be un-compacted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
historical data, InfluxDB writes to older shards that must first be un-compacted.
```

  and combines multiple blocks containing the same series into one block in a new file.
- **Level 4 (L4):** **Full compaction**—InfluxDB iterates over L3-compacted file blocks
  and combines multiple blocks containing the same series into one block in a new file.

##### Shard compaction-related configuration settings
- [`storage-compact-full-write-cold-duration`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/config-options/#storage-compact-full-write-cold-duration)
- [`storage-compact-throughput-burst`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/config-options/#storage-compact-throughput-burst)
- [`storage-max-concurrent-compactions`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/config-options/#storage-max-concurrent-compactions)
- [`storage-max-index-log-file-size`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/config-options/#storage-max-index-log-file-size)
- [`storage-series-file-max-concurrent-snapshot-compactions`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/config-options/#storage-series-file-max-concurrent-snapshot-compactions)
- [`storage-series-file-max-concurrent-snapshot-compactions`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/config-options/#storage-series-file-max-concurrent-snapshot-compactions)

## Shard deletion

> The InfluxDB **retention enforcement** service routinely checks for shard groups

Reviewer: Notice we bolded service earlier, maybe it's part of the pre-creation service name?

> The InfluxDB **retention enforcement** service routinely checks for shard groups

Author: ```suggestion
The InfluxDB **retention enforcement service** routinely checks for shard groups
```

older than their bucket's retention period.
Once the start time of a shard group is beyond the bucket's retention period,

> InfluxDB deletes the shard group and associated shards and TSM files.

Reviewer: by associates, do we mean we save the shards in TSM files? do they have the same name?

Author: Shard groups consist of shards. Shards consist of 1 or more TSM files.

In buckets with an infinite retention period, shards remain on disk indefinitely.

{{% note %}}
#### InfluxDB only deletes cold shards
InfluxDB only deletes **cold** shards.
If backfilling data beyond a bucket's retention period, the backfilled data will

> remain on disk until:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
remain on disk until one of the following occurs:
```

> 1. The shard returns to a cold state.
> 2. The retention enforcement service deletes the shard group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The shard returns to a cold state.
- The retention enforcement service deletes the shard group.
```

Author: These are sequential. The shard first has to go cold. InfluxDB won't delete a hot shard.

of the bucket:

| Bucket retention period     | Default shard group duration |
|:-----------------------     | ----------------------------:|
| less than 2 days            | 1h                           |
| between 2 days and 6 months | 1d                           |
| greater than 6 months       | 7d                           |

#### Manage shard group durations
To configure a custom bucket shard group duration, use the `--shard-group-duration`
flag with the [`influx bucket create`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/cli/influx/bucket/create/#create-a-custom-shard-group-duration)
and [`influx bucket update`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/cli/influx/bucket/update//#update-the-shard-group-duration-of-a-bucket) commands.

{{% note %}}
Shard group durations must be shorter than the bucket's retention period.
{{% /note %}}

To view your bucket's shard group duration, use the
[`influx bucket list` command](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/cli/influx/bucket/list/).

### Shard group diagram
The following diagram represents a **bucket** with a **4d retention period**
and a **1d shard group duration**:

---

{{< html-diagram/shards >}}

---

## Shard life-cycle

### Shard precreation

> The InfluxDB **shard precreation service** creates new shards before data actually arrives.
> The precreator service only creates shards with future start and end times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
InfluxDB **shard precreation service** creates new shards with future start and end times before data arrives.
```

> It does not create shards that are either wholly or partially in the past.

Reviewer: Earlier, we discuss the **shard group duration** determining the interval that new shards/shard groups are created. Can we reword to align with this language? For example, "_InfluxDB pre-creates shards with future start and end times for each shard group duration_" ? 

Alternatively, when discussing shards above, we could clarify the concept of shards being "wholly or partially in the past," but think that may be less intuitive?

> #### Configure shard precreation

Reviewer: What happens if they don't pre-configure shards? Maybe a task-based procedure to "Manage shards"? In new Administer InfluxDB section or under "Manage buckets"?

To configure the InfluxDB shard precreation service, use the following `influxd`
configuration settings:

- [`storage-shard-precreator-advance-period`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/config-options/#storage-shard-precreator-advance-period)
- [`storage-shard-precreator-check-interval`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/config-options/#storage-shard-precreator-check-interval)

### Shard states

> A shard can be in one of two states: **hot** or **cold**.

Reviewer 2: Hmmm, I'm not sure about this. A user can write into any shard they like regardless of whether it's the most recent shard in the shard-group or not. I'm not sure what value this section will have for an end-user. What are we trying to convey? Is it that you should avoid writing into into old shards that have been fully compacted?

Author: No, just that these states exists. We use this terminology a lot, but we don't explain it anywhere. What if I remove the compaction phrases?

Reviewer: Do we need to use the term hot/cold, or just convey the shard is being written to or not? Simplifies verbiage and mental model if we boil it down to that. Then we could remove this section, and include the following text in next section:

_Typically, InfluxDB writes data to the most recent shard group, but when backfilling
historical data, older shards <may be/are?> written to. When the backfill is complete, InfluxDB re-compacts the older shards._

Author: In the 2.0 docs, we do not because this is the first real attempt to explain shards in the 2.0 docs. We do when talking about shards in 1.x. The terms "hot" and "cold" are common when talking about InfluxDB shards.

Reviewer: Thanks, @sanderson. I'd lean toward omitting terms like this when possible. If hot/cold conveyed multiple criteria, that'd make sense. Otherwise, it's extra term for folks to look up.

Author: The original reason for including these terms was that these terms are commonly used when talking about shard management with customers. Our support and product teams both use them to describe the state of shards and these states have other implications.

For example, recently an Enterprise customer was seeing performance dips in their database and it appeared to be a disk IO issue. They contacted their underlying host provider who analyzed the actual physical disks and couldn't find any issues. What it came down to is that they were backfilling data and didn't understand that InfluxDB had to un-compact the old (cold) shards to write to them (making them hot), then re-compact them, which can be a very disk IO-heavy process.

I hesitate to omit these terms because they're used so commonly by our support and product teams.

Reviewer: I understand it's familiar jargon, but think it's just as clear w/o:
_InfluxDB must un-compact old shards to write to them, and then re-compact the shard afterwards, which can be a very disk IO-heavy process._

Typically, best to omit jargon.

- **Hot shards:** [Un-compacted](#shard-compaction) shards actively being written to.
- **Cold shards:** [Compacted](#shard-compaction) shards not actively being written to.

> To write to a shard, it but must be un-compacted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To write to a shard, the shard must be hot (un-compacted).
```

Typically, only the most recent shard group contains hot shards, but when backfilling
historical data, all shards that receive newly written historical data are hot
until the backfill is complete and the shards are re-compacted.

### Shard compaction
Compaction is the process by which InfluxDB compresses time series data to optimize disk usage.
InfluxDB compacts shards at regular intervals using different compaction levels.

#### Compaction levels
There are four levels of compaction:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Shard compaction
InfluxDB compacts shards (to compress time series data) at regular intervals to optimize disk usage. InfluxDB uses the following four compaction levels:

- **Level 1 (L1):** InfluxDB flushes all newly written data held in an in-memory cache to disk.

> - **Level 2 (L2):** InfluxDB iterates over L1-compacted file blocks (over a certain size)
>   and combines multiple blocks containing the same series into one block in a new file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Level 2 (L2):** InfluxDB compacts up to eight L1-compacted files into one or more L2 files 
     combining multiple blocks containing the same series into fewer blocks in a new file(s).
```

- **Level 3 (L3):** InfluxDB iterates over L2-compacted file blocks (over a certain size)
  and combines multiple blocks containing the same series into one block in a new file.
- **Level 4 (L4):** **Full compaction**—InfluxDB iterates over L3-compacted file blocks
  and combines multiple blocks containing the same series into one block in a new file.

> #### Configure shard compaction

Reviewer: task-based "Manage shard" doc?

- [`storage-max-index-log-file-size`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/config-options/#storage-max-index-log-file-size)
- [`storage-series-file-max-concurrent-snapshot-compactions`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/config-options/#storage-series-file-max-concurrent-snapshot-compactions)
- [`storage-series-file-max-concurrent-snapshot-compactions`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/config-options/#storage-series-file-max-concurrent-snapshot-compactions)

## Shard deletion
The InfluxDB **retention enforcement** service routinely checks for shard groups
older than their bucket's retention period.
Once the start time of a shard group is beyond the bucket's retention period,
InfluxDB deletes the shard group and associated shards and TSM files.

In buckets with an infinite retention period, shards remain on disk indefinitely.

{{% note %}}
#### InfluxDB only deletes cold shards
InfluxDB only deletes **cold** shards.
If backfilling data beyond a bucket's retention period, the backfilled data will
remain on disk until:

1. The shard returns to a cold state.
2. The retention enforcement service deletes the shard group.
{{% /note %}}

> #### Configure retention enforcement

Reviewer: Manage shard retention?
